Redefine (co)limits in terms of kan extensions (#186)
plt-amy/1lab: src/Cat/Diagram/Colimit/Cocone.lagda.md

```agda
open import Cat.Diagram.Colimit.Base
open import Cat.Instances.Functor
open import Cat.Diagram.Initial
open import Cat.Prelude

import Cat.Functor.Reasoning as Func
import Cat.Reasoning

module Cat.Diagram.Colimit.Cocone where
```

<!--
```agda
private variable
  o ℓ o′ ℓ′ : Level

open _=>_
```
-->

# Colimits via Cocones

> As noted in the main page on [colimits], most introductory texts opt
> to define colimits via a categorical gadget called a **cocone**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As noted in the main page on [colimits], most introductory texts opt
to define colimits via categorical gadgets called **cocones**.
```

[colimits]: Cat.Diagram.Colimit.Base.html

A `Cocone`{.Agda} over $F$ is given by an object (the `coapex`{.agda})
together with a family of maps `ψ`{.Agda} --- one for each object in the
indexing category `J`{.Agda} --- such that "everything in sight
commutes".

```agda
module _ {J : Precategory o ℓ} {C : Precategory o′ ℓ′} (F : Functor J C) where
  private
    import Cat.Reasoning J as J
    import Cat.Reasoning C as C
    module F = Functor F

  record Cocone : Type (o ⊔ ℓ ⊔ o′ ⊔ ℓ′) where
    no-eta-equality
    constructor cocone
    field
      coapex : C.Ob
      ψ      : (x : J.Ob) → C.Hom (F.₀ x) coapex
      commutes : ∀ {x y} (f : J.Hom x y) → ψ y C.∘ F.₁ f ≡ ψ x
```

As per usual, we define a helper lemma charaterizing the path space

> of cones:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of cocones:
```

```agda
  open Cocone

  Cocone-path : {x y : Cocone}
              → (p : coapex x ≡ coapex y)
              → (∀ o → PathP (λ i → C.Hom (F.₀ o) (p i)) (ψ x o) (ψ y o))
              → x ≡ y
  Cocone-path p q i .coapex = p i
  Cocone-path p q i .ψ o = q o i
  Cocone-path {x = x} {y = y} p q i .commutes {x = a} {y = b} f =
    is-prop→pathp (λ i → C.Hom-set _ _ (q b i C.∘ F.₁ f) (q a i))
      (x .commutes f) (y .commutes f) i
```

## Cocone Maps

Now that we've defined cocones, we need a way to figure out how to
express universal properties. Like most things categorical, we begin
by considering a "cocone morphism", which will give us a category
that we can work within. The idea here is that a morphism of cocones
is a morphism in $C$ between the coapicies, such that all of the

> injection maps commute.

Reviewer: This paragraph needs to be rewritten

  Cocone-hom-path p i .hom = p i
  Cocone-hom-path {x = x} {y = y} {f = f} {g = g} p i .commutes o j =
    is-set→squarep (λ i j → C.Hom-set _ _)
      (λ j → p j C.∘ x .ψ o) (f .commutes o) (g .commutes o) refl i j
```

Now, we can define the category of cocones over a given diagram:

```agda
  Cocones : Precategory _ _
  Cocones = cat where
    open Precategory

    compose : ∀ {x y z} → Cocone-hom y z → Cocone-hom x y → Cocone-hom x z
    compose K L .hom = K .hom C.∘ L .hom
    compose {x = x} {y = y} {z = z} K L .commutes o =
      (K .hom C.∘ L .hom) C.∘ x .ψ o ≡⟨ C.pullr (L .commutes o) ⟩
      K .hom C.∘ y .ψ o              ≡⟨ K .commutes o ⟩
      z .ψ o                         ∎

    cat : Precategory _ _
    cat .Ob = Cocone
    cat .Hom = Cocone-hom
    cat .id = cocone-hom C.id (λ _ → C.idl _)
    cat ._∘_ = compose
    cat .idr f = Cocone-hom-path (C.idr (f .hom))
    cat .idl f = Cocone-hom-path (C.idl (f .hom))
    cat .assoc f g h = Cocone-hom-path (C.assoc (f .hom) (g .hom) (h .hom))

```

<!--
```agda
    cat .Hom-set x y = Iso→is-hlevel 2 eqv hlevel!
```
-->

## Initial Cocones as Colimits

> A cocone over some diagram $F$ contains the same data as natural
> transformations from $F$ to a constant functor. This means that they
> contain all of the data of a colimit; the only other bit we need is
> the universal property. This can be obtained by defining a colimit to
> be the [initial] object in the category of cocones over $F$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A cocone over some diagram $F$ contains the same data as natural
transformation from $F$ to a constant functor. This means that they
capture all the structure of colimits, save for the universal property.
That too can be encoded, by asking that the cocone in question be
an [initial object].
```

[initial object]: Cat.Diagram.Initial.html

The proof mostly is an exercise in shuffling about data.

```agda
  Cocone→cocone : (K : Cocone) → F => Const (Cocone.coapex K)
  Cocone→cocone K .η = K .Cocone.ψ
  Cocone→cocone K .is-natural x y f = K .Cocone.commutes f ∙ sym (C.idl _)

  is-initial-cocone→is-colimit
    : ∀ {K : Cocone}
    → is-initial Cocones K
    → is-colimit F (Cocone.coapex K) (Cocone→cocone K)
  is-initial-cocone→is-colimit {K = K} init = to-is-colimitp colim refl where
    open make-is-colimit
    open Cocone
    open Cocone-hom

    colim : make-is-colimit F (Cocone.coapex K)
    colim .ψ = K .ψ
    colim .commutes = K .commutes
    colim .universal eta p = init (cocone _ eta p) .centre .hom
    colim .factors eta p = init (cocone _ eta p) .centre .commutes _
    colim .unique eta p other q =
      ap hom (sym (init (cocone _ eta p) .paths (cocone-hom other q)))
```

The inverse direction of this equivalences also consists of moving

> data around.

Reviewer: I would honestly just mention this process is invertible and comment out the entire definition of `is-colimit→is-initial-cocone`
